when we say that Russia brought the
Internet, this electricity Yes,
Neli Russia came to Tajikistan, but simply the
Age of technology came Yes they came
to Russia from Europe Yes and to other
countries Where are you from? I’m from Tajikistan And you,
I’m from the city of Khmelnitsk Ukraine in a
Tajik
city  the city of Khujand North of Tajikistan
north and it turns out that your nationality is a
Tajik
Pamiri I’m surprised how you know such
subtleties about the ethnic component of
our country I’m interested in different
peoples and like uh Russians if you
look Yes they uh describe people
from Central Asia Uzbekistan
Tajikistan Kazakhstan as some kind
savages who there
before the arrival of
Russia did not know civilization yes And when
I communicate with Russians about Asia
if we look at Uzbekistan Tajikistan
yes When in Russia there were still toads Yes there was a
Great culture there poets here you are, this
Firdousi
was a Tajik
You really impressed me Impressive
with yours  listen with knowledge No, he was not a
Tajik, then Tajiko did not exist at all
Well, it’s just nice, as if it were
not a creature, it’s the same as For example,
if we look there 500 years ago
or 700 years ago there were no Ukrainians
Well, the people who lived on this Earth
these are the ancestors of the Ukrainians Yes, from time on
they were simply called differently, also
Tajiks, so your people existed Yes, but
they were not, as it were, singled out as a separate
ethnicity, that is, let’s say it’s a farce,
pagan peoples, yes they, too, due to
their geography and  of the other, they are separate
and, as it were, their culture further
developed a little separately from each
other, just like the Slavs were Poles,
Ukrainians, they once diverged and the
cultures are a little different Yes, but if you
look now, in my opinion, where Ferdowsi was born
He seems to be on the territory of Iran
now Yes  this city of the EU is not Yes Iran Yes
nonno territory I want you I want to
challenge with you this very thesis of yours that it is
more accurate not to challenge but on the contrary
to confirm what the Russians say that
before the arrival of Russia there was no
civilization there really before the arrival
Russia was wild Dick the wildest situation
in Central Asia Islamic Caliphate Well,
like the Caliphate Emirate Islam ruled there
because it was a very bad time
when women were in a very depressing
situation and even We have people
who really don’t share me, the
Russians actually brought us toilets and
taught us how  use the toilet boom,
let's start with the fact that in
Russia in those days, a woman had a
position in society that was not very different
from that in the countries of Central Asia. Yes, a
woman in Tsarist Russia, too, she was
no one, women could not. How is it that a
woman became their empress
when  - with us It’s not just
the empress because they were imperial,
they were German clans, the empress
was German, she wasn’t Russian, but in
these Russian villages the woman on Baba
had absolutely no rights,
so no, well, in comparison.
Therefore, in the seventeenth year after
the revolution  Yes, it was huge there for
women’s rights They were given the
right to study and so on, before,
a woman couldn’t Study there at the
university and so on Well,
I don’t know that, but one way or
another from what I felt from what I
know Russia  really did a lot
for Central Asia, and in part it was
Father Villion. Well, for example, they built schools,
well, Soviet power. Let’s say
Soviet power is not imperial Russia, there is a
general, I’ll explain. What is the logical
mistake when the Russians also say there
that they built everything for everyone?
Russia gave you the question
electricity
m yes, it was under the Soviet regime that
electricity was carried out yes
Question question uh what is the problem uh
electricity just came in such an era
that electricity has already begun to reach
all countries Yes, even in those where there was no
Russia for some reason
electricity was carried out in the same way as for example the
Internet came the era  and you
have the Internet now in Tajikistan, the Internet
Nuno is Yes there is Yes, if there
was a Soviet Union now, you were in the Soviet
Union Yes, you would say that the Soviet
Union Russia brought you the Internet, so it would
work out
mm Well, it turns out, yes it will turn out like this,
that’s what  I lead when we say
that Russia brought the Internet, this
electricity Yes, Neli
Russia came to Tajikistan, but simply the Age of technology
came Yes, they came to Russia from Europe
and to other countries, but Iran, Russia
did not bring electricity to Iran, the
Parse are a kindred pagan people  Tajik,
how come they electrified without
Russia and you wouldn’t have electrified well, well,
no, well, technology, technology, the
Iranians came from Europe
They didn’t come up with anything since Well, because
it’s not Yes, it’s not Russia that you
were electrified, but Russia What
did she do?  used the conquered
peoples as colonies Naturally, it was
necessary to build infrastructure in the colonies;
they built a railway. Not because they
wanted to give Tajikistan a railway there,
but because it was necessary to remove
resources, for example, from some
mining enterprises. Yes, schools.
Why did they do it too? Yes, because the
trend was towards schools  all over the world
Because the states realized that the
population needs to be trained because the
trained
produce more than the untrained,
that’s all, that is, here the Armed Forces are quite simple,
listen to an interesting interesting overview, a
look at historical events. I have
never looked at my past from this angle
in my mind  It’s Russia that
came, taught us how to use toilet paper,
built us
emancipated schools, and the like.
Well, in this paradigm, I’m stranded in
a lot of ways.
Let’s talk about Ukraine, but
I’m interested in the realities of Ukraine.
More about Tajikistan because I’m
a streamer from Ukraine. Yes, they’re watching me.  In the beginning,
2,500 people are watching, and
we often talk about Russia and Ukraine, but people from
Central Asia don’t come across this often,
and it’s a pretty
interesting topic for our nada, too,
because VN was even there about 10 years ago.
In principle, among the average person,
you can ask the Tajiks there too  and so on
Yes, the average person
was still spinning around in the Russian information space and
also perceived people from Central
Asia as well, uh, because they imposed mo
Name this word Name this word Yes,
because Moscow imposed them Yes, I’m saying
that That is, there were also some bad words
this yes that is Now this Now
this is not the case I don’t I don’t observe but that
is it was Yes that’s uh And what’s an
interesting thing is that yes uh Russian
imperial Propaganda also throws on us on
our people those cliches
that you say that Russia
brought there Russia Russia  built
power plants and so on Yes, but
Uh, it’s kind of very interesting that it was
n’t Russia that built it, it was also built by our
people Yes, who also built here and
sent people from both Ukraine and
Tajikistan to build the Kla-Amur
highway in the north,
how many objects were built by our people  that's
all, no, well, Ukraine Ukraine
entered the Soviet Union as a union
state, it is a fully formed
state that already has a certain
historical background, it has already entered, but
the Republic of the country somehow Tajikistan
was invented by the councils of such a country as
Tajikistan did not exist as a country
there, the Ukrainian UPR you had
standing  there is the European Civilization but
Central Asia, the names of these countries are like
Uzbekistan Tajikistan Kyrgyzstan and
Turkmenistan These are purely made up words
there, look at the World Cup as if it were a question. This
also did not appear out of nowhere. The fact is
that in the whole
world at the end of the twentieth century it began
like this  called the spring of nations, that is, there
was an era when empires developed, the
British Empire, the Austro-Hungarian
Empire there, the Russian Empire at the end of the 10th
century, the process of people realizing
themselves as nations and
national liberation movements as
a result of the First World War, the empire
weakened, the Ottoman Empire
disappeared, the Austro  - the Hungarian Empire
disappeared, uh, the Russian Empire, yes,
on the territory of the Austro-Hungarian Empire,
for example, the state of
Czechoslovakia appeared, so before that the state
of Czechoslovakia, like the state of
Tajikistan, did not
exist, does this mean that Chekhov’s
Slovaks did not exist? They have no
right to their own state, they were invented by
the Europeans, let’s say Yes,  behind the results of the
First World War When there was
the signing of this peace treaty and the
division of the Hungarian Empire. Yes, they
singled out such a state as
Czechoslovakia. Can we say that
the Europeans invented Czechoslovakia? Hitler
said this, and that Czechoslovakia was
artificially invented there. Yes, the
historical process was that  these
peoples gained their independence and
uh such borders appeared, these same
borders Yes, they also didn’t seem to come out of
nothing, so the communists took it and
said let’s do it here on the
devil Lenin came up with Let’s come up with
Tajikistan Uzbekistan no you had
if we look after  917,
yes, these temporary
state formations, then
the Bolsheviks came and destroyed the local
government. Yes, they established Soviet power and
forced, and they
were forced to sort of take into account the local
national liberation movement and
somehow flirt with it. Yes, and therefore
they made such national ones within these borders.
states Yeah yeah interesting, listen it
turns out it’s been so long I’ve been so
derogatory about my own
country About my own history for me
it’s somehow a little bit towards cold souls
somehow not like look here in
Ukraine Yes, a lot of people also
think like that from a point of view  from the point of view of imperial
self-awareness, the Empire has always been waiting for
something like this Well, in Ukrainian, how is
it, damn it in Russian?
Less less Artie, in short, in general,
people feel less valued and look, under the
Soviet Union, what year were you born?  I
lived
another 10 years, I remember what jokes circulated
in the Soviet Union about Moldova,
about Estonians, Armenian for the sake of Georgians, about
everyone, everyone was in such negative
characters, only Russians were in elite
characters, jokes Yes, languages ​​too
Yes, it was undignified to speak local, for
example,
my grandmother lived with me  in Kyrgyzstan then it was still
called Kyrgyzstan. She is from Ukraine, but she was
sent to work as a doctor there. I was there at the
age of 7. I remember, yes, that is, everything
was Russified there. That is, my mother
grew up. Well, yes, we also have city
residents who mostly speak Russian. They say this
Yes, that is, it was not prestigious
because we had a person from the region come to the
city. He spoke Ukrainian in the city. It
was not prestigious. Yes, because it was
considered, as it
were, uh, not the language of the titular ethnic group. Yes,
there is Russian and everyone migrated to
Russian.  No, on the other hand, the
Russian language is this, this is a window into
science for these small nations, for example,
literature is not translated into Tajik, the
Kyrgyz language is mainly scientific
literature. Western literature is less
translated. Question
Look, I don’t know Tajik, but
Kyrgyz and Kazakh are chocks
languages ​​yes Well yes Well yes there is a
discrepancy Poche That is why
scientific terms are translated into Turkish but
not translated into Kazakh and Kyrgyz
This is also the Russians They constantly say
that these languages ​​are not adapted to these in
Russian I all scientific terms are either
English or German or
French  Uh-huh, of course you
are telling the truth, you are reasoning correctly, but the only
question is that now
in the era of such globalization
of globalization, I cannot
understand why these small languages ​​of small
peoples exist, they can
exist as folklore Yes, some, but the
main languages ​​are universal as
English is like Russian there, China,
these languages ​​of large economic powers.
They are much more rational to
use than small ones, what is the question?
Let's So, if I'm not
mistaken, your
language is Farsi. Well, Tajik, it's Cyrillic, it's in
Cyrillic, only we write it in the
Jafar or Farsi alphabet. How
correctly with the language of small nations in terms of the
total number of speakers Yes, this will be a
fairly huge number, more likely
than, well, no more Maybe than the inhabitants of the
Russian Federation, but comparable to
some extent Yes, if Tajikistan is
now 30 million population no
Tajikistan 10 million Afghanistan there are still
millions there  10 they say, and in Iran they
say 50 million, that’s 70 million GTO 70
ml, that’s already half of Russia, yeah, no, well,
the problem is that for the most part,
you see, it’s developed in such
traditionalism, so our Progress is slowing down the
Progress of our language, there’s even a
living example  in Iran, for example,
some literature is forbidden to be
translated into Farsi because it
contradicts some canons
of this bad religion, and
you yourself know the name very well, and here
we have the same thing
as Darwin’s book, for example, yes, conditionally,
this is the origin of species in Tajik
language Well, well, you can’t find it, you have to
read it in Russian, for example,
question question If uh Tajiks Yes uh
need a second language and some kind of
international yes then it’s more logical from
your point of view it’s just more logical
to choose English because all
scientific literature is published in
English for the first time Yes that’s it  that in Russian
- these are translations there with about knowledge in 3 4 5
years, if so here in Ukraine And
also all scientists They learn English
because the English-speaking world is now
generating it, it is Advanced science, so
if we look at
scientific journals also in English
language are published, yes, therefore, the Russian
language in terms of scientific character, yes, it is very
limited because the number of discoveries, the
number of serious scientists in the Russian
language is minuscule, that’s how many Nobel
laureates are from
Russia, well, there are a lot of Russian-speaking ones, for
example, No, but I
can’t name the Nobel laureates right away But from the
Russian-speaking environment, for example  here is Sergey
Brin, the founder of Google, also from a
Russian-speaking environment,
semi-not Sergey Brin Yes, this is a
Jew who emigrated from the USSR
at a young age Yes, and he is English, he grew up in
America, he grew up in America, he went to a
synagogue in America, he speaks
Russian brilliantly Well, he’s brilliant  Vlade, he
in no way correlates with Russian, all his
activities were in Google in
English, scientific in English, everything in
English. That is, you know how, for
example, to say that a person from
Tajikistan went to America at the age of 7 Yes, he
grew up there at school, he grew up there at the
university in  in the English-speaking environment, he
graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology Yes, and he says that he’s in the
Tajik language, no. He’s completely already
like an American in this regard, a
scientific school. Therefore, Well, this is an
interesting reasoning, which means it
makes me think that when
Jews talk about what  most of the
Nobel Prize winners are Jews, too,
stupid with
sredny roots Yes, but these are people of other
cultures already Yes, well, others if he is an
American if he is an American He is a
representative of the American scientific school
Yes, that’s all Or the French scientific
school or the British scientific school Yes, we
don’t say, for example, Joe  Biden he is
Irish by nationality,
the Irish there, for example,
have reached the pinnacle of governance in the United
States of America No, he is an American, this is a
completely different national community,
it turns out with the Jews Yes, because it
turns out well, I, too, so many of them are
Jews, but that doesn’t mean that they are from
Israel Yes  this means if you take
the majority of Nobel laureates And
scientists in general And trace their
genealogies there you and the Ukrainian Poti and the
Frenchman And the German because
three or four
generations of people are already so intertwined Well, returning to the language, I
just can’t completely understand one thing, understand
what it is  historically, the
Russian language has already become a part of our
life. Yes, there is no escape from this and
why not develop it, for example, now,
not make it yours and not develop it
further, the question is why there is no escape
here in Ukraine. This is very visible for another
five years, even  ago and said that no,
we already speak Russian anyway.
It’s impossible to change it so that
people speak. Why? And so on, when
the Russian invasion of Ukraine began,
somehow in a couple of months everything changed,
people. Even those who spoke
Russian fundamentally Yes.  before they switched to
Ukrainian now
to hear Russian speech It already somehow
hurts the ear when someone speaks Russian
and somehow society
has changed so much television is completely in
Ukrainian Yes, business has switched to communication
almost also in Ukrainian, all this is a process and the
transition has really taken about five years  and that’s all
if Well, English will be harder
because it’s a little different, but on the
other hand, if people who live
near you in Pakistan, for example
Afghanistan Iran, can easily learn
English
and learn English, they integrate into
Western society Yes, you live next to
them, but you  study Russian and
integrate into Russian society Yeah,
that’s all, it just
happened historically. Yes, now you’re using it.
Well, in these same territories of yours,
how many times
has some historical language of
interethnic communication changed, yes, it was
Chagatai when Tajikistan was under the
Mongols or not Well  naturally tasta
Under whoever was under the Mongols
there was this Uyghur letter was the
Chagatai language was used and
then there were some others there from there from
Khorasan or Hassan it turns out that you have
cha part of Khorasan
you have Khorasan Yes, this is kind of considered tge  Well, you
just understand. There is also a situation here
that the language is the economy of this or that
country code when it is powerful when it is
cool It develops and it
naturally attracts the language of that country, it’s
just that we are economically very closely
connected with Russia and we understand what is
really inside Russia Well, one way or another
Let's be honest, there are also a lot of
very interesting scientific discoveries and
economic breakthroughs happening there. Yes, for example, just
for the sake of interest. Name some
scientific discovery or economic
breakthrough from Russia. Well, I’ll name
it like this and which one exactly happened in Russia.
For example, a bank of shadows. This
really very very very
advanced Advanced advanced story when it has
now spread throughout the CIS
that this bank is an online bank which has no
branches and everything works there here
in Ukraine We have a monobank in Ukraine
as far as I know a monobank the
founder of the monobank
worked in the shadows  and this and the tracing paper of Tenkov
Bank no no he worked at PrivatBank the
founder did not work in Tenkov,
which means that Tenkov appeared much
earlier than Mo on the bank no no it’s that the
online application, see Danko
For example, if you look at our Privat24
PrivatBank Yes, he was digital  call Even
then, when Tennikov, uh, went to this in
antediluvian times, yes, that is, the
leading bank of Ukraine Yes PrivatBank is a
technologist Zro Osya there everything is already done in Privat24
I don’t know 15 years ago Yes later A
monobank appeared a little when it would be more accurate to
nationalize from private and management of
private  left and
created a monobank, that is, without branches,
in fact, it turns out that recently
it all happens, and Tennikov
appeared in the twelfth year, just
just look at Privat24 Yes,
Privat24 is completely online banking, he was I do
n’t know yet 2003 2005 I already used it
in my opinion  No, I’m not talking about this
online bank Well, I’m not talking about the Bank on the
phone, but about the very concept of Tenkof
where there are no physical branches and everything
works online, they send you a card
by mail, you activate it there
and they also sent it to physical
branches, but  were it you choose for yourself
at least online at least so absolutely VM problem
That is, this is not a
Russian breakthrough, neither technological nor
economical, even I was mistaken Tenkov in general in
2006, it turns out it was founded it was
founded as a bank it was founded as a bank it
with branches was a bank bank it  I was with
branches. I
really don’t remember, I don’t remember, but it was
Oleg NM initially and it was called S bank
then Tenkov bank 2020 Yeah I
understood everything I understood I understood yes At first it was him and it was him
with the branches then they were
pressed and they just went online that
is  technologically, therefore, this is not a
breakthrough. Absolutely right. Yes, that is. And
look again, and then I’ll
say a remark now. The point is that
look, it’s suitable. Why did
online banks appear like this? It appeared not
only in Russia And not only in Ukraine. The
point is  the fact that in this world in the world the
Internet is developing and
payment systems are developing and so on. Yes, if
we look at the payment systems that
developed in Russia,
Qiwi WebMoney developed there and so on.
Yes, they lagged behind the world there, and
PayPal there too. And so on for
decades  PayPal, in my opinion,
was the basis in 8. Well, now, if not but, however,
but however, let’s
say in terms of ease of use,
speed, etc. CIS banks After all, they are
now much superior to those banks
that appeared earlier in e Look, not
of course, but the idea is that there is  banks
that, for example, are in America Yes, there are
still check books there And so
on Yes, because the question here is not
the technology of Ukraine or Russia, the question
is that old systems adapt to
new ones, the
US banking system is more bureaucratic, it is a little like a
bureaucrat,
yes  all technologies come from Europe, not a
single technology in Russia, all
components Russia buys
abroad Yes, of course not,
but also one more, one more By the way, the idea
of ​​public services is when everything is in the
phone, you are there in your phone, here in
Ukraine Yes in Ukraine in  Ukraine Diya
we have actions according to our Yes, public services in the
phone and what is it, after all, this is also a carbon
copy of public services Well, no Yes, why a
carbon copy of public services That is, it seems to you that
everything will be invented in Russia, look Techno
simply as an economic center
For example, I assumed I I  rather, I
will be very happy if I’m wrong, I
assumed that Russia, being a huge
party, mobile brains, technology, money
and so on, it generates cool
ideas there and produces after which they
blur once again, look again,
take the same one there Yandex Yandex maps before
that there were Google maps true  Yandex
maps - This is a copy of VKontakte, before this there was
Facebook VKontakte, it is much cooler than
cooler than Google Yandex is not Yandex,
look
Yandex, I’ll tell you now What is your
mistake - Yandex maps in some places
detail just for the CIS, some
things are better, yes, because for Google
Yandex, conditionally, if the clientele in Russia is
mostly yes, for Google the
Russian market is a trifle because the
Russian economy in comparison with the
world economy Yes, the USA and Europe
are a trifle Yes, the purchasing power of a
person in Russia and a person in Europe is not the
same Yes, therefore for
Google  for the first time they are launching services
where, uh, the economy is bigger, yes. Therefore, if
we take
the detailing of Google’s maps in Europe Yes, for
example, yes, then of course Google’s is
much cooler, Yandex won’t even
compete, and if we take, for
example, some Novosibirsk conditionally Yes,
Yandex Maybe  there is better
detail because for Yandex there is
a clientele, he grabs it for Google, it’s
secondary and that’s it. This is what you
see, you conducted a total educational program on
my this. Well, I’m not a programmer.
This is with technology here, this is exactly my
sphere, like here  I can
analyze Yeah, well, that’s
interesting now Now we I I, before that, I
really believed that exactly that the
center of gravity is Russia and so on, but
I believe that after all these
events that we can’t talk about, the center of
gravity of the economy of money and brains
will be  Kiev, as I understand it, from Moscow
will move smoothly to Kiev and the entire CIS
will not overlap there at all. Look,
from Moscow, of course, there is an outflow of
people from Russia because in 2022 alone,
according to Russian data, 2,500 scientists left
Russia at different levels Yes, but they are
not leaving  to Kiev because for a
scientist Yes, if he is already planning
to move Yes, he goes where it
will be more interesting for him from an economic and
scientific point of view Yes, Ukraine is also
not scientifically advanced, yes, that
is, we are post-Soviet countries We are in the
global scientific community  we are
far from being the first echelon and therefore if a
scientist chooses to squeeze, of course he will not
move to Kiev. Yes, he will move there,
for example,
to a university in Switzerland, for example, or to a university in
Sweden, or to an American
university in the UK, so where there are
more opportunities from a scientific point of
view, that is  and the scientific community is
cooler and there are more opportunities for
research and in terms of salary there will be
more of course there will be no outflow of scientists to
Ukraine of course not
Well, in any case, in every region there is
such a local point of attraction,
for example in Europe a local one - this is
Germany Great
Britain Yes  where they are very economically
developed and technologically And in our
post-Soviet space it turns out that we are
still, one way or another, people of the same one
way or another, the same mentality and the same
culture, no matter how you look at it. Yes, I understand better and
Russian languages ​​are much easier for me, what kind of the
same mentality. For example, I have a
Ukrainian  Ramzan Kadyrov Yes, as a
person from
Buryatia,
we understand at least by and
that language is the most important part of
culture
no no well, for example, look, it’s
much easier for me as a Russian speaker to learn
Ukrainian, for example, but than English,
respectively, for me it will be, of course, because
more more Yes, well, let’s put it this way for
Moskvich Let me give you an
example for Moskvich Yes uh
Who would be more
close to a Russian-speaking Tajik or Finn
who speaks Finnish is
definitely a Russian-speaking Tajik
No We have a cultural code a cultural code
still exists alone, we grew up there on the same
films, on the same cartoons and
so on  Isn’t that why
the Russians hate the Tajiks so much? Yes, for
example, they have a negative attitude towards them and the
Finns are so Well, Well,
of course, Of course, you understand perfectly well
that it’s not us, we can’t
generalize the Russians, I myself don’t really
support this one either  history when they
call us Yes, well, although I have developed
self-irony there, I can call myself there,
but well, Russia is a huge country and
quite adequate people live inside. Well,
take the Russian fugitive
oppositionists too. Yes, they are also quite
adequate reasonable people and I don’t  I think
that with him they can do this
a couple of days a couple of days ago in the
Chelyabinsk region, just
Russian-speaking Russians Yes, they burned down the houses
of Russian-speaking people m dada yes
because of a taxi driver Yes, one mentality is
Russian-speaking Yes, but you see there is
a division for some reason, some kind of someone else’s or
not  there is no common
mentality between Russians and Russian-speaking people.
However, I ask
you to also note that a similar
situation is happening in Ukraine,
in particular in the Odessa region, I’m just
watching the news, but
in the Odessa region in Kiev, this also
happened in  In Kiev, there
was an incident at the market when
someone, either an Arab or someone during the
conflict there, punched a grandfather in the face and a
nationalist came running there and demolished half the market
Well, not half the market But this is all these,
these varnishes,
these Asians are being demolished  When was this? It
was in Kiev before Covid, it seems.
Now I’ll tell you for sure, a pogrom in the
Kiev market, a pogrom in the Kiev market, that’s
exactly what I know, the nationalists staged a
pogrom in Kiev. Here in 2018,
tell me I’m on. Here you can also
google and look
Yes, the nationalists staged a pogrom in
Kiev on May 27, 2018 Oh, there’s even a video
so there’s
nru So here’s the
video right here I’ll watch it now I’m
interested don’t poke it I’ll look here
So where the foreigner hit the pensioner photo
and video
like that  so where is it that, like, based on
nationality, the kiosks
were bombed, well, that is, at the market, this
Arab turns out to be a grandpa there that was
indignant Well, of course, it
would not be an Arab, but the seller of the market is the
seller of the
kiosk Yes, and he was demolished for this this
kiosk Yes, everything is super That  there are no
kiosks of Arabs, they didn’t go, they didn’t knock down
Absolutely right,
they just come running in balaclavas and they
do this again, look in balaclavas not
only Glory to everyone, that is, let’s
figure it out, that is, uh, a
kiosk worker or a kiosk owner
Yes, a pensioner and he was demolished this
kiosk Yes, that’s it  understood that is,
uh, not on a national basis Yes, neither
because of this they did not go, nor did they burn the kiosks of
all the Arabs there or so on, yes, that
is, the person who grandfather Yes, they
caused such damage to him, not if if
if a similar situation, relatively
speaking, there is a person with  white skin or
born in Ukraine, there are a lot of examples,
a lot of examples, take them now Yes, there are,
look, in reality now you’re on
Google and this is also last year, someone there is
bad against a military man, there’s a Ukrainian
guy like a military man Yes, they came to him, in short, they
smashed him and just beat him up  But there’s really
a lot of this.
Regardless, I remembered a situation
when a military man. This driver didn’t
let the military man in. The
driver was Ukrainian. Yes, he didn’t let him in. They came and
forced him to apologize, or there, yes, there is
such a thing, see, it’s adequate, it’s generally
adequate. Wait, look again, that is,
look, you admit it  that this is not
national, not based on nationality
True Well, yes, I’m ready to assume that this is the
way it is, because
if the Ukrainian driver behaved badly,
and if it was a Tajik driver, conditionally
Yes, they said that Oh, they came there and
loaded up a Tajik Well, no, that’s when they
loaded up a specific driver  Yes, not
because he is Ukrainian or Tajik, but
because he acted badly with the
person
who defended Ukraine there, that’s all. Yeah, yeah,
no. Well, in general, what’s
happening is this, look, come on, come
on, stop stop stop then  yes, we are
underground yes Because you said that in
Ukraine it also happened yes that is in Russia in
Russia in the Chelyabinsk region specifically
Yes there were calls for all these Russian
chats nationalist yes What is
Nazi What should we burn in short
because drug dealers and so on they and
people are real  they walked and burned
houses and everyone from this city ran to the
neighboring one, they were taken out by the police and
under guard,
not just even there the seed is not just a
seed. In Ukraine there is no such
thing, although in Ukraine
there are also conflicts on national grounds
because in any country there are conflicts on
national grounds  help, but we don’t have such a thing. Yes, so that they would
go there and burn everyone there,
for example. And so on, and in Russia there is a
pogrom here in Odessa, Odessa region,
that’s exactly the same situation that
you’re talking about about this, they brought it up
reports You can pour it again Yes,
after knowing  a nine-year-old girl, whom the
residents of the village of Loshchinovka suspect, began to
destroy the houses of a representative of this
ethnic minority, they demanded to
be evicted from the village now for the
sixteenth year, the residents of Novka,
and there’s even a video here, and they
posted the video on Twitter to Porom
Loshchinovka, according to law enforcement officials,
none of the representatives of the community
I got hurt BBC residents of a village in the
Odessa region are asking to
evict There is a people's gathering Yes the
police are standing Yes the residents of Novka in the
Odessa region are asking to evict a row after
the belt
Yes the residents are indignant
Desh no one here according to law enforcement
No one from the community was
injured Yes there were unrest but
you see Yes  the very fact I’m saying that there is, yes,
but we don’t have it and look how Ukrainian
society reacts to this, yes, Ukrainian
society doesn’t like such pogroms. Yes,
people in Russian
society don’t understand this opinion. There is something
about our tolerance that ends
when it comes to it. It’s just that we
had an inadequate example because  that I don’t
know a single region in our
post-Soviet space Where they would be
treated adequately, they would be
treated normally and humanly, everywhere even
in our Tajikistan, you
know, they are treated like
second-class people, I don’t know, I can’t
explain to myself Well, you  you know that they kind
of lead an antisocial lifestyle, they don’t
work and they’re not good for society, but it’s a
big problem. It was a bad
example, as required by the dudes, they
really wrote it. Well, I don’t know, I just
know you know very well
that the devil knows they have such a
cult. Let’s do it like that  Now
you say correctly, say that
more of these lifestyles are
integrated into society, this is the same as
saying that all Tajiks there are
such and such is true. That
would also be wrong, but to say that a
certain part of the Tajiks there
come to Russia there are uneducated
and  so further there, for example, from
some villages there, the Russians, as they say
All Tajiks, they are
there here, of course, to generalize to
generalize Of course, it’s stupid, but there is such a
thing as the concentration of certain
idiots in certain nations, for example,
the concentration of uneducated people among
our Tajik population is too
high Unfortunately, for example, even if you
compare 100,000 Ukrainians and
100,000 Tajiks at random, it
will be very sad. I’ll explain. I’ll explain
why. Because, uh, level of
education. Yes, it correlates a little
with the level of urbanization. The fact is that
Europe has passed. That’s why if we
look at what uh  closer to Europe, and even
more so, the number of some kind of
educated population there was yes. In terms of
not in terms of higher education. Because
if in terms of fictitious higher education
we are now in the Soviet Union with
almost the coolest fakfa. The fact is
that the Russian Empire once
controlled these  territory Yes, it
was backward, in the Russian Empire
they abolished serfdom very late,
yes, that is, in essence, the Russian Empire
acted in the interests of the landowners, it
tried, that is, what the economy was like. There are
people, people. This is the working material
they had to do there with sickles
when in Europe  automation was already in full
swing, we had people bending over with sickles
Yes,
and there is a very interesting book Yes, why do
nations like them prosper Why do they
attack And yes, yes they received the
Nobel Prize for eq I don’t know what
it’s called in Russian because I
read it brilliant  book why some countries are
rich in others No, I just recently
read it. It’s brilliant. I haven’t read it yet. There
wasn’t a Ukrainian translation yet. I
read it in English. It’s very interesting, too.
Here’s an example, too, with the railroad,
yes. What, for example, in Europe the railroad
developed? Yes, that’s uh  contributed to the
mobility of the population, for example
in Austria. Yes, and in this and in the Russian
Empire the railway
did not develop as much because,
well, the authorities were worried that
people would then be able to move more. And this,
well, in the interests of the landowners, in essence, it
was so that they were less able to travel.
Yes,  and this, as a result,
also negatively affected the economy, that’s all and a
bunch of such things if we look Yes,
intellectual rights and so on it was
in Europe there in the same Britain and
stock markets were already We were lagging behind
this if we look
e
Just say more  One addition to your idea is
that they researched the idea of ​​this book and
came to the conclusion that institutions, working
institutions, are basically the Guarantor of the
prosperity of certain Nations,
even if we even take our most backward one,
even if everyone gathers in one
state And they work there
institutions Yes, conditionally, it’s natural to
read it just in the context of
this book, I’m reading it and I discovered a lot of things for
myself, and when I look at
modern Ukraine, something happens and
I just have an imbalance in my head that you
understand everything, you already understand it all  I realized for myself
that institutions should
work well, everything and so on, but it confuses me
that 2 years have already passed in your
beautiful wonderful country, 2
years of war, and there’s such a brain rupture.
Yes, you also talked about the fact that people
switched to the Ukrainian language
deliberately.  yes, it
was such a conscious move, but looking at your
wonderful bigus info, the Ukrainian truth,
I’m in some kind of shock that why hasn’t it
still been possible to at least minimally
overcome this damn corruption
Look, a very good question, yes, I was waiting for
you to ask this question  If you do it, then
look - corruption is present
throughout the post-Soviet space.
Moreover, corruption is present in
Europe, corruption is also present in
America, the question is in what volumes. Yes,
this corruption is present in and How does
our society react to this in the
post-Soviet space, in fact, we
have  The legacy of Sovka, but what? For example,
Lithuania Latvia Estonia quickly broke away
from Sovka yes they have a lower level of
corruption, but it exists Yes, but it is less than
ours, we have a higher level of corruption Yes,
in Russia there is an even higher level of corruption
than in Ukraine question If in Ukraine
bigus info  Ukrainian truth, journalists
can
investigate Yes, Free them for that
Yes, their investigations have the influence of
someone out there behind the investigation And so
on, this
is a positive process in the fight against
corruption
Yes, of course, but more it seems that
you know what I said about the institute,
so journalism and then  there is
free media -
this is one of the institutions of a democratic
state. And in Ukraine this
institution is developing. Unfortunately, it’s
young because, for example, if we
take the European media, the American media,
they have a rather long history, they
have practices, they have some
standards, yes.  In Ukraine and in general in the
post-Soviet space, journalism is
young, there is no whole generation that has
already grown up with this, there is no understanding of people
that journalism needs to be supported. For
example, it’s only been about five years since
serious things like
supporting the media with
donations began. For example, if it’s T bigus
info he does  investigations, people
throw money at him like they support
his activities Yes, and the one who does
good investigations Yes, they
can receive more donations, donations,
more film crews can do it and so
on. This is what we have already
developed very well and if we
watch Yes, bigus is very  quite
serious things, for example, he was there against the
security service of Ukraine, say when
they were being watched there. They showed him,
no one did anything to him, they didn’t do anything to him
for this, yes, they didn’t throw him behind bars, but for
some far-fetched reasons, like in
Russia, for example, well, excuse me, excuse me  you have a
minister of the minister and this minister of the
fiscal service. Forgive me, correct
me by last name, this is very typical
for our region. Nasyrov
was detained and then released and there has been
no decision on his case for 5
years. Nasyrov then for a long time the thing was
that Ukraine was not there  It was,
after all, a rule of law state. Yes, we
can’t just detain and
execute, detain and execute, yes, that is,
in order to convict a
person, you need to follow a certain
legal procedure, the state must
prove, Yeah, with facts, that this person,
this process is quite turbulent. Yes,
because, uh, you  You also understand that the one who
makes very complex systems Yes, and
steals in huge quantities Yes, he
hides behind good lawyers and they
try to bring these schemes out there through
different ones, it’s hard Yes, unfortunately, this is not a
very simple process If we look in the
same America there too  there is no
such thing that they took there in a year, there are
some, uh, these are how they
deal with things in America that last for
decades, can also last, yes, but
then it comes So if we look, Yes,
we have Yes, for example, there is corruption that
seems to have been delayed, but as a result they
could not prove  Yes, it’s already hard to
watch. Either they were able to somehow influence the
investigation. Yes, it’s not clear either their
lawyers did a good job or it’s
really already difficult here. Well,
given the fact that Prosecutors must
prove guilt, there is a crime, there
is such a thing that they could
say so the question How much do you have  in
Tajikistan Yes, there are investigations
about such
corruption Zero, that’s all That’s the difference,
that means that if there is no
investigation, then there is no
corruption That’s exactly what the new young
generation of Tajikistan SR is
doing, looking at the experience of
post-Soviet countries that achieve
some kind of success, I want to enrich myself with this
knowledge  and somehow itiro in his homeland
Yes, and looking at the best example for me,
this is Ukraine for me. Look later,
if we look about Russia in Russia,
for example, we started now when we left the
step and started taking his deputies there. Yes,
every deputy there is a billionth, just
billionaires  fortunes were stolen You
saw it’s true,
why not a single Russian newspaper writes about it,
not a single Russian newspaper, they’re
all silent, that is, who the authorities decided to
appoint We all remove them, they revealed
godless corruption in Russia Yes,
I’m up, that’s why even I don’t even Russia  I
consider it as a guideline for action
because this is in Ukraine when I
see that there is an investigation into bigu. I
understand what it means in my country
there are democratic institutions, yes, that
is, ours, these are how they are an investigator,
our journalists, they can get to the bottom of it.
Yes, they pull
because the media -  this is
the kind of watchdog of democracy you know, as they
say, yes, that is, they must be on purpose,
they must be aggressive, they
must bite, ask uncomfortable questions,
show this, and it is, and it moves. Yes,
because here’s what I also want to
say in many post-Soviet countries, the
advent of the Internet has contributed to
democratization. Why  Because in the
nineties Yes, when some kind of game
was done She remained informationally in
some town now if there was some kind of
game For example, these Prosecutors Yes,
this is from my region This is from my city
Prosecutors of my region This is what
there were disabled people there Yes  and dadada they are there
certificates certificates God this is What a nightmare
this is and this is from my city you know This is
my region so it turns out they have already done a
rating they have checked all of this the
prosecutor's office of Ukraine Our region
receives the largest type of rating in
this in terms of the number of people with disabilities
But
uh  I see that we can do uh
such investigations and plus the most important thing is
this noise It’s not just like, you know, they
talked there and it all really
followed the resignation of the prosecutor
again The Prosecutor General’s Office immediately carried out
an investigation and
published the result on
disabilities of different regions of the prosecutor’s office
And so on and so on  there is a society that
has shown the power, uh, how does it react
to public requests, the government can’t
say yes What, for example, well, these are our
Prosecutors for us, in short, yes, that is,
democracy is such that it moves,
as for corruption and my opinion, uh, it’s
impossible to completely eradicate it Yes,
because  it doesn’t matter if we take the
European ones. Yes, there was a scandal in the European Union.
Yes, there was agro. Hey, how many
European politicians
are sitting on Russian money, the same Austria And so
on, this is corruption, this is corruption,
yes, but the question is how can we
reduce the level  corruption Yes, because
just like crime, it is clear that it
is impossible to defeat crime without
theft or murder, yes. But it’s one
thing when you have
one murder per year per 10,000 population, and another thing
when you have 100
murders per year per 10,000 population, yes that’s  the problem is clear
that there is some kind of problem with
corruption. Yes, it is clear that human
nature is flawed, there will be someone who
wants to steal something from the budget or
something, yes, but the question is How often is this
when we see that uh there uh
70%  regional prosecutor's office - these are
Prosecutors with disabilities, this is game, it's obvious Yes,
if there was some one prosecutor
who did something for himself
[music]
luring,
I think that I'm not what I think just
Sorry, just Experience experience
experience hey, depend on me, the experience of Georgia
was for me  very, very revealing and you
even invited the former
President of Georgia Saakashvili to your place and
at some point he simply became disillusioned and
began to go into disgrace, what can we say about the fact that
nothing is working out in
Ukraine and the revolution took place with I will
say this  I will say this. Judging by what I
see, it seems that in Georgia
it didn’t quite work out
because the pro-Russian forces were still
able to take revenge on VSU. Yes, not everything is
so smooth here, as for us,
uh when I understand that uh Well
Saakashvili  how I saw him in Ukrainian
politics Yes, he is quite shocking, I’m
such a choleric yes And he’s just generally a
choleric choleric like yes, he’s a very
person with a complex character. As I
understand it, Yes, it’s difficult to get along with me and it’s
even more difficult to get along with him here uh in him
there were more present uh also these like
them uh personal such ambitions, yes, that is,
he still was a man of the first
magnitude in the country Yes, and here he is, as it were,
Alya governor That is, this is a little
different, but some things he correctly
highlights everything political  as if it was
impudence to say there, and they should
have taken him into account too, yes. So, well, that
is, the fact is that the process of
state building is very
complex, we are young states, here we have
How many in Ukraine we are in the
ninety-first year 30 how much
today 2004 33 years
33  years when European states
went through the formation of political
systems of people's political legal consciousness
Yes, we basically have the same way, I
wanted to ask you how your elections are going,
I understood,
yes, we have no choice,
no, I wanted to give an example of how
we have people on the right, why did you vote
for like  he says so beautifully, yes, that is,
many people make an emotional
decision, he seems handsome, he seems
cool, and he says smartly, it seems,
yes, that is, people, for example, or a
city council member candidate promises that
pensioners need to raise their pensions. Yes, but the
city council deputy does not
set pensions  Yes, and people Oh damn, he
promises, yes, that is, no. If we look at
the same thing there, the United States of
America, yes, they have
much more involvement in the political process,
but you don’t have a political process at all, yes, in Russia, no, it’s fictitious, yes, in
Ukraine, there is a political process  and this
shows that our current president is
losing the elections. Yes, for example,
Poroshenko,
he came with a grandiose show, of course he came,
he won in the first round. Yes, when
he entered the repeat elections. Yes, he lost,
although he had administrative resources,
he could technically, you know, take there and
so on Yes, he lost fairly, he lost, it
was unpleasant for him, he recognized the elections, he
recognized congratulated this winner Yes, and he
went into the opposition, that’s all yes If we
look at Yushchenko, we had president Yes,
uh, he entered the elections then the second one scored a
small percentage, he lost everything, that is, in
Ukraine, how-  no way, after all,
there is an electoral process, yes, but this
electoral process has a problem,
these are the voters Yes, because the voters
also
gave a choice to TVH and T, he also needs to
learn it by trial and error, yes, that
is, there is also, for example, in elections there
was bribery yes  for example, at the
presidential elections, this is hardly visible because
there is a huge number of votes. It won’t
work here, but at the parliamentary elections, the deputies also
handed out buckwheat. Yes, so that, for example, people would
vote for them, this is also present
because I was an observer at the elections,
we were monitoring these
processes. That is, it’s all there  yes, and for
example, if Western countries went through
this there 100 years ago, we are now
going through it Yes, at an accelerated pace, that’s
all Uh-huh and the same thing Yes and the same thing here I am I Yeah
Yeah you will have it
We are lagging behind Europe in  in this regard,
you are some years behind us,
how much will you also have a moment when
you come to the conclusion that there will be elections after all?
Yes, and there
will also be a problem that people somehow
elect incomprehensibly.  they, like
this one, will vote for him incomprehensibly,
that is, and society will also
learn, well, it’s just civilization if
it comes along a chain. But I personally,
like Tajikistan, would like to
shorten this chain so that it doesn’t go
through Ukraine, it should go through Kazakhstan
through  Kyrgyzstan will come to us later
Well, conventionally, this is how it usually
happens Yes, but I just want to
shorten this path directly from
Ukraine and to our Central Asia so that
we can live well in the five republics,
but, however, I wanted to tell you one
thing that at the end of the day  you are even
longer than Tsikava Lyudina, what do you
know about the time of the ass with us? I also learn the
Ukrainian language in May but I need to
come to you to gain qikh m
as his experience experience I was the experience of the Ukrainian
before I will bring to the information about Today
we are new  I learned the word in Ukrainian, so
we will learn Ukraine Ukrainian and we will
come to you and learn from your experience,
this will be for us Neo for
that. Yes, I wouldn’t look at you in the chat, I have a
blog, I have a channel on YouTube, I have it
too, yes dadada I have it  in the discord
here the guys there write there everything when they
write When will you already admit that you
know Ukrainian I say I I I it’s
true I really Your guys didn’t recognize
me and I love this country I
adore M not we we are a rather specific
group I I you already  guessed We are atheists
from Tajikistan and we work secretly
Here, if we openly say that we are
atheists, you know, these Allah
women of ours are very aggressive in this
matter, so the guys try to
hide And this is how we run the show, we are
now watched by 2000 people Like so
on
stream beauty on my discord 16
people great guys see today we are the
stars good dyakuyu lyka Je was there come on come
on So come on Since you know
Ukraine Come on teach me
some words about the farce and our viewers then so that there
is parity Come on let's
so Glory to Ukraine so  bulo in Farsi Tse
bude let's not Give some things
that I can Tajik just ska there
Good afternoon as for example hello
Good afternoon well this is Good afternoon We
usually say Salam aleikum but this is
Arabic if the word duru rut - It's like
Hello rut -  this is Chi Tajik chekhli
chekhli holsters this is how are you doing holsters holsters and
probably I I love you probably the
matura Dust fools will be I love you Yes
this is an
interesting question I wanted Yes, along the way I wanted to
ask uh from religion yes it turns out that the
holiday Navruz is celebrated in Tajikistan
Yes, it is considered one of the
most important holidays of the Tajiks Yes, it’s a
zaro astris historian of Islam if I’m not
mistaken Yes, it turns out it’s
present in Iranian in Iranian-speaking
peoples, but it’s not Islamic Yes, it’s
like the equinox or
solstice, and what is it Ruz yes yes yes  yes,
this is this holiday, this is the holiday of the
equinox, it almost exists in all the nations of the world,
and this
shows that yes, yes, I’m just
wondering, yes, when I got acquainted with
Navruz, I still think about how
it has taken root in Islamic states
because it works in
Christian states  yes, well, where
Christianity is widespread, there are also
some holidays that have their
roots back in the pre-Christian era and
somehow they adapted, they get it at the time of Christ,
only there it was different for a friend, it’s
called Ivan’s Kupala, and so
on and so on, so Navruz
is what the Arabs don’t have  Navruz does
n’t work like that among the Arabs, it seems it’s not
just among the Arabs, this is this,
this is an interesting bloodthirsty religion, it
just destroyed them from the Arabs, there
was something like that now they don’t have it
left with us, it’s left because we
kind of love it this holiday
really Cool and it’s good that he’s
kind Not connected with
this, how these Savages do it there, we, we,
vegetarians, can’t stand it. Moreover,
when they slaughter animals even in front of children, they’re
still so cruel. Lord, let’s not talk about
this, thank you so much to you, it’s very
rich  to you of the day and to you yours,
ok oh
switched cool was yes we should have
already gone to bed half an hour ago but
this conversation I think it was worth it, it
was quite an interesting conversation
at first it seemed to me that the guy was
deliberately provoking there like there was
something negative about Ukraine Yes but then
after all, it was clear that he was in
ours Well, because I see he’s throwing it out there about
this and that Yes, it seemed to me that
he was like some kind of Russian
bot on purpose that These kinds of
narratives are being deliberately dispersed no really Yes the
person wants he is interested  with this Yes, he,
like Ukraine, is going its own way. Yes, and he, as a
citizen of his country, is also
interested in this. Yes, he is interested in how it is possible, and so
he is interested in the fight against
corruption. How are the Prosecutors?
becomes such a driver of the
struggle for a new life. Yes, it’s not even
just a question. We often talk in Ukraine
about corruption, corruption.
Yes, we have corruption because it’s a
complete
post-Soviet corruption. Yes, in different and uh.
The further to the periphery  It’s worse there.
But we still
have democratic institutions, no matter how it is. Yes,
we have the influence of society on this. We would
like it. We would like it more strongly. We would like
society to make a noise; everything has
changed, yes. Well, damn
they are social systems.  they don’t rebuild in one
day, they as an organism, but if our
body, the muscles have atrophied a little,
yes, like, we didn’t play sports,
but in order to reach a certain
level, we need a certain
number of days of training there And so
on, to get into shape, so does
society  social institutions cannot be
rebuilt in one day. This is a rather
complex process because social
institutions are built from people from
these people who are already spoiled people. Yes, they
who have already worked for 10 20-30 years
in these government bodies are
corrupt officials and so on you don’t
change then and in one day you
won’t replace them all, so conditionally the problem is with the same
prosecutors yes Okay Yes, the Prosecutors are all
bad How can we now
replace all the good in one day It doesn’t work yes
There is no button to generate 10,000
new prosecutors Yes change  in one day
and if we change them somehow little by little Yes,
they are like these uh cucumbers
end up in a rotten jar and also n That is,
these are very complex transformation systems,
some uh drag on for decades,
some can drag on longer,
so every year that we
postpone what  - these are serious reforms
Yes, it drags on for another year for about a
year, it’s very difficult about what’s cool that
people there are from Tajikistan from other countries
They are watching Ukraine Yes they
see positive changes somewhere Yes they see changes somewhere they
see that something and  they are asking themselves
the question: But what about a well-read
guy? Yes, he is there and reads books and
understands some things. It
was quite interesting to talk, but
still, uh, in comparison even with those
Russians who were there, just Heaven
and earth yes And when the Russians speak  what is
there Oh, these Tajiks, Kazakhs, Uzbeks,
they are uneducated there and so on, there
are problems there too, yes, because
even under the Soviet regime, uh, it
was done so that
those regions essentially did not really develop
Yes, they
were used as a resource
base, they remained in
this way until the
urbanization  society just like in
Ukraine Yes, on collective farms they kept
people from villages by force, they didn’t release passports, they didn’t
give them because they needed free
labor there in Ukraine, Buryats
to pick cotton in Uzbekistan And so
on, quite an interesting conversation
Write in the comments then who will
watch the video Your thoughts By  this
conversation Your thoughts about Ukraine about
Tajikistan and about these processes and uh
Did you like this conversation And do
you want even more like this like squeak
comment Write to my Instagram I don’t know
what this is for Why are you
marveling at omi face Ale for you  tse
one two or three clicks Ale you trime
me and I will be [ __ ] Wow in me there Kupa
folov and in me there will be a cool mood to
robiti Novi cool video Write to th
Instagram popk Andriy
like this let me
check for you L